Now that we learned about the different types of selectors, attribute selectors we can use, how can we select
this input of type checkbox?
Well, there is one obvious way of doing that I'd say but there also are other ways,
so let's try different ways. In the start-hosting.css file,
I'll add my signup-form selector because again I'll use the descendant combinator
and then I want to target all inputs which have a certain attribute and the easiest way of targeting
the checkbox would be to select inputs which have the type attribute, where the type attribute value
equals checkbox and that would only be correct for our checkbox element here.
Now there is absolutely nothing wrong with that approach and it would be the approach you use
in reality probably.
However let's copy that and comment out the first approach,
we could also say we want to target all elements where the ID attribute contains the term 'terms', so the
word 'terms' because if we go back, we see that our checkbox has an ID attribute which contains terms,
we could have also looked for agree terms or just agree.
This also is only true for this input,
so this is also a perfectly fine selector here.
Now there are of course other ways of doing that too,
you could search for the suffix terms or the prefix agree or with the pipe symbol,
agree
which would also include agree-terms.
There are other ways,
definitely feel free to play around with that,
now I will go with this ID selector here.
The question is, how do we want to style this?
Now I want to set the display here to inline block.
I still want to have the block level features, for example the margin to the top but I also want to
position this in line with my label which is next to it,
therefore this is something I definitely need.
Speaking of that, we should also just select that label and if we have a look at our HTML code, we see
that the label is coming after this input.
Now again, we get couple of ways for selecting the label:
we could select it by attribute selector,
we could use that for attribute and again use terms or something like that.
We can also use a combinator though, we can copy that input
ID term selector and add a comma after it,
then add it again and now use the plus combinator and label. This will target all labels that directly follow
this element, which is only the case for this label here.
So now with that, we're setting this to inline block too and I'll set the width back to auto for now.
With that, if we save all of that and we go back to our project and reload, we actually see that the label
and our checkbox are back in one line and we also see that the button is in the same line, we'll take care
about this later,
for now this is a great first step, bringing us closer to our desired outcome.
Now let's also take care about the button immediately and I'll do that by using another selector,
I'll use my signup-form and select the button which has the type submit.
Technically, we would not need this because it's the only button but again, to practice all these attributes
selectors and for that button, I'll then simply set the display to block like this,
if we reload now, button is in a new line,
let's maybe also add a little bit of margin to the top of 1rem to have some distance in there
and now this is looking better in my opinion.
Now we get this nice structure here, ensuring that our code looks good or our form looks good I should
say.
Why is the button now not spanning over the full width
you might wonder? Well it is a block level element but just like inputs, it by default doesn't take all
the width for its content,
we would have to manually set width 100% and I'm not interested in doing this here.
Now with these first steps taken, before we dive into the actual styling of the single elements, let's
switch into mobile mode because Manuel explained that we would develop everything mobile first
from now on and we will.
Now, this doesn't look too bad on mobile right now,
it also doesn't look great.
Now the general structure of having all these elements beneath each other will be the same
but now we should work on centering that correctly,
maybe adding some padding, stuff like that.
So let's do that.
For that, I'll go up in my CSS file
and below the sign-up title, I'll add a style for the signup-form
and there we could just add a padding of 1rem to all directions, so that if we reload the page, our content
isn't sitting directly on the edges, so this certainly looks better in my opinion.
We also can target our signup-form label in general here and give it a font weight of bold,
this will just ensure that the labels are a bit easier to see.
I'd say, so this also, is in my opinion, quite a nice style. Now for bigger screens,
if we're not in the mobile mode, this is way too big though. So we should add a media query at the bottom maybe
and give it a min
width of 40rem which is the breakpoint we used on the other pages too,
there we also used 40rem quite a bit and in there, I now also want to target my signup-form and give it
a margin of auto and maybe a width of 30rem.
If we save that and reload, now our form is narrower,
it's centered in the middle too
and only if we shrink the size to smaller devices, it also snaps to the edges and takes the full
available width and it doesn't grow on bigger screens because it shouldn't.
So this is now certainly looking better, now
maybe it's still a bit too wide, a bit too much space, so we could decrease that.
We could set it to let's say 25rem, like this and now I think this is looking good.
Now obviously, we have this edge case here where we're on a smaller device and it's quite big
but actually keep in mind, I'm zoomed in here, this actually looks good on the smaller devices
we do use in reality.
So I'm liking that look. With that out of the way, with the general layout set,
it's now time to continue
and now I want to focus on styling the individual form elements.